usage: 
  certbot [SUBCOMMAND] [options] [-d domain] [-d domain] ...

Certbot can obtain and install HTTPS/TLS/SSL certificates.  By default,
it will attempt to use a webserver both for obtaining and installing the
cert. Major SUBCOMMANDS are:

  (default) run        Obtain & install a cert in your current webserver
  certonly             Obtain cert, but do not install it (aka "auth")
  install              Install a previously obtained cert in a server
  renew                Renew previously obtained certs that are near expiry
  revoke               Revoke a previously obtained certificate
  register             Perform tasks related to registering with the CA
  rollback             Rollback server configuration changes made during install
  config_changes       Show changes made to server config during installation
  plugins              Display information about installed plugins

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -c CONFIG_FILE, --config CONFIG_FILE
                        config file path (default: None)
  -v, --verbose         This flag can be used multiple times to incrementally
                        increase the verbosity of output, e.g. -vvv. (default:
                        -3)
  -t, --text            Use the text output instead of the curses UI.
                        (default: False)
  -n, --non-interactive, --noninteractive
                        Run without ever asking for user input. This may
                        require additional command line flags; the client will
                        try to explain which ones are required if it finds one
                        missing (default: False)
  --dialog              Run using dialog (default: False)
  --dry-run             Perform a test run of the client, obtaining test
                        (invalid) certs but not saving them to disk. This can
                        currently only be used with the 'certonly' and 'renew'
                        subcommands. Note: Although --dry-run tries to avoid
                        making any persistent changes on a system, it is not
                        completely side-effect free: if used with webserver
                        authenticator plugins like apache and nginx, it makes
                        and then reverts temporary config changes in order to
                        obtain test certs, and reloads webservers to deploy
                        and then roll back those changes. It also calls --pre-
                        hook and --post-hook commands if they are defined
                        because they may be necessary to accurately simulate
                        renewal. --renew-hook commands are not called.
                        (default: False)
  --register-unsafely-without-email
                        Specifying this flag enables registering an account
                        with no email address. This is strongly discouraged,
                        because in the event of key loss or account compromise
                        you will irrevocably lose access to your account. You
                        will also be unable to receive notice about impending
                        expiration or revocation of your certificates. Updates
                        to the Subscriber Agreement will still affect you, and
                        will be effective 14 days after posting an update to
                        the web site. (default: False)
  --update-registration
                        With the register verb, indicates that details
                        associated with an existing registration, such as the
                        e-mail address, should be updated, rather than
                        registering a new account. (default: False)
  -m EMAIL, --email EMAIL
                        Email used for registration and recovery contact.
                        (default: None)
  -d DOMAIN, --domains DOMAIN, --domain DOMAIN
                        Domain names to apply. For multiple domains you can
                        use multiple -d flags or enter a comma separated list
                        of domains as a parameter. (default: [])
  --user-agent USER_AGENT
                        Set a custom user agent string for the client. User
                        agent strings allow the CA to collect high level
                        statistics about success rates by OS and plugin. If
                        you wish to hide your server OS version from the Let's
                        Encrypt server, set this to "". (default: None)

automation:
  Arguments for automating execution & other tweaks

  --keep-until-expiring, --keep, --reinstall
                        If the requested cert matches an existing cert, always
                        keep the existing one until it is due for renewal (for
                        the 'run' subcommand this means reinstall the existing
                        cert) (default: False)
  --expand              If an existing cert covers some subset of the
                        requested names, always expand and replace it with the
                        additional names. (default: False)
  --version             show program's version number and exit
  --force-renewal, --renew-by-default
                        If a certificate already exists for the requested
                        domains, renew it now, regardless of whether it is
                        near expiry. (Often --keep-until-expiring is more
                        appropriate). Also implies --expand. (default: False)
  --allow-subset-of-names
                        When performing domain validation, do not consider it
                        a failure if authorizations can not be obtained for a
                        strict subset of the requested domains. This may be
                        useful for allowing renewals for multiple domains to
                        succeed even if some domains no longer point at this
                        system. This option cannot be used with --csr.
                        (default: False)
  --agree-tos           Agree to the ACME Subscriber Agreement (default:
                        False)
  --account ACCOUNT_ID  Account ID to use (default: None)
  --duplicate           Allow making a certificate lineage that duplicates an
                        existing one (both can be renewed in parallel)
                        (default: False)
  --os-packages-only    (letsencrypt-auto only) install OS package
                        dependencies and then stop (default: False)
  --no-self-upgrade     (letsencrypt-auto only) prevent the letsencrypt-auto
                        script from upgrading itself to newer released
                        versions (default: False)
  -q, --quiet           Silence all output except errors. Useful for
                        automation via cron. Implies --non-interactive.
                        (default: False)

testing:
  The following flags are meant for testing purposes only! Do NOT change
  them, unless you really know what you're doing!

  --debug               Show tracebacks in case of errors, and allow
                        letsencrypt-auto execution on experimental platforms
                        (default: False)
  --no-verify-ssl       Disable SSL certificate verification. (default: False)
  --tls-sni-01-port TLS_SNI_01_PORT
                        Port number to perform tls-sni-01 challenge. Boulder
                        in testing mode defaults to 5001. (default: 443)
  --http-01-port HTTP01_PORT
                        Port used in the SimpleHttp challenge. (default: 80)
  --break-my-certs      Be willing to replace or renew valid certs with
                        invalid (testing/staging) certs (default: False)
  --test-cert, --staging
                        Use the staging server to obtain test (invalid) certs;
                        equivalent to --server https://acme-
                        staging.api.letsencrypt.org/directory (default: False)

security:
  Security parameters & server settings

  --rsa-key-size N      Size of the RSA key. (default: 2048)
  --must-staple         Adds the OCSP Must Staple extension to the
                        certificate. Autoconfigures OCSP Stapling for
                        supported setups (Apache version >= 2.3.3 ). (default:
                        False)
  --redirect            Automatically redirect all HTTP traffic to HTTPS for
                        the newly authenticated vhost. (default: None)
  --no-redirect         Do not automatically redirect all HTTP traffic to
                        HTTPS for the newly authenticated vhost. (default:
                        None)
  --hsts                Add the Strict-Transport-Security header to every HTTP
                        response. Forcing browser to use always use SSL for
                        the domain. Defends against SSL Stripping. (default:
                        False)
  --no-hsts             Do not automatically add the Strict-Transport-Security
                        header to every HTTP response. (default: False)
  --uir                 Add the "Content-Security-Policy: upgrade-insecure-
                        requests" header to every HTTP response. Forcing the
                        browser to use https:// for every http:// resource.
                        (default: None)
  --no-uir              Do not automatically set the "Content-Security-Policy:
                        upgrade-insecure-requests" header to every HTTP
                        response. (default: None)
  --staple-ocsp         Enables OCSP Stapling. A valid OCSP response is
                        stapled to the certificate that the server offers
                        during TLS. (default: None)
  --no-staple-ocsp      Do not automatically enable OCSP Stapling. (default:
                        None)
  --strict-permissions  Require that all configuration files are owned by the
                        current user; only needed if your config is somewhere
                        unsafe like /tmp/ (default: False)

renew:
  The 'renew' subcommand will attempt to renew all certificates (or more
  precisely, certificate lineages) you have previously obtained if they are
  close to expiry, and print a summary of the results. By default, 'renew'
  will reuse the options used to create obtain or most recently successfully
  renew each certificate lineage. You can try it with `--dry-run` first. For
  more fine-grained control, you can renew individual lineages with the
  `certonly` subcommand. Hooks are available to run commands before and
  after renewal; see https://certbot.eff.org/docs/using.html#renewal for
  more information on these.

  --pre-hook PRE_HOOK   Command to be run in a shell before obtaining any
                        certificates. Intended primarily for renewal, where it
                        can be used to temporarily shut down a webserver that
                        might conflict with the standalone plugin. This will
                        only be called if a certificate is actually to be
                        obtained/renewed. (default: None)
  --post-hook POST_HOOK
                        Command to be run in a shell after attempting to
                        obtain/renew certificates. Can be used to deploy
                        renewed certificates, or to restart any servers that
                        were stopped by --pre-hook. This is only run if an
                        attempt was made to obtain/renew a certificate.
                        (default: None)
  --renew-hook RENEW_HOOK
                        Command to be run in a shell once for each
                        successfully renewed certificate.For this command, the
                        shell variable $RENEWED_LINEAGE will point to
                        theconfig live subdirectory containing the new certs
                        and keys; the shell variable $RENEWED_DOMAINS will
                        contain a space-delimited list of renewed cert domains
                        (default: None)

certonly:
  Options for modifying how a cert is obtained

  --csr CSR             Path to a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) in DER
                        format; note that the .csr file *must* contain a
                        Subject Alternative Name field for each domain you
                        want certified. Currently --csr only works with the
                        'certonly' subcommand' (default: None)

install:
  Options for modifying how a cert is deployed

revoke:
  Options for revocation of certs

rollback:
  Options for reverting config changes

  --checkpoints N       Revert configuration N number of checkpoints.
                        (default: 1)

plugins:
  Plugin options

  --init                Initialize plugins. (default: False)
  --prepare             Initialize and prepare plugins. (default: False)
  --authenticators      Limit to authenticator plugins only. (default: None)
  --installers          Limit to installer plugins only. (default: None)

config_changes:
  Options for showing a history of config changes

  --num NUM             How many past revisions you want to be displayed
                        (default: None)

paths:
  Arguments changing execution paths & servers

  --cert-path CERT_PATH
                        Path to where cert is saved (with auth --csr),
                        installed from or revoked. (default: None)
  --key-path KEY_PATH   Path to private key for cert installation or
                        revocation (if account key is missing) (default: None)
  --fullchain-path FULLCHAIN_PATH
                        Accompanying path to a full certificate chain (cert
                        plus chain). (default: None)
  --chain-path CHAIN_PATH
                        Accompanying path to a certificate chain. (default:
                        None)
  --config-dir CONFIG_DIR
                        Configuration directory. (default: /etc/letsencrypt)
  --work-dir WORK_DIR   Working directory. (default: /var/lib/letsencrypt)
  --logs-dir LOGS_DIR   Logs directory. (default: /var/log/letsencrypt)
  --server SERVER       ACME Directory Resource URI. (default:
                        https://acme-v01.api.letsencrypt.org/directory)

plugins:
  Certbot client supports an extensible plugins architecture. See 'certbot
  plugins' for a list of all installed plugins and their names. You can
  force a particular plugin by setting options provided below. Running
  --help <plugin_name> will list flags specific to that plugin.

  -a AUTHENTICATOR, --authenticator AUTHENTICATOR
                        Authenticator plugin name. (default: None)
  -i INSTALLER, --installer INSTALLER
                        Installer plugin name (also used to find domains).
                        (default: None)
  --configurator CONFIGURATOR
                        Name of the plugin that is both an authenticator and
                        an installer. Should not be used together with
                        --authenticator or --installer. (default: None)
  --apache              Obtain and install certs using Apache (default: False)
  --nginx               Obtain and install certs using Nginx (default: False)
  --standalone          Obtain certs using a "standalone" webserver. (default:
                        False)
  --manual              Provide laborious manual instructions for obtaining a
                        cert (default: False)
  --webroot             Obtain certs by placing files in a webroot directory.
                        (default: False)

standalone:
  Automatically use a temporary webserver

  --standalone-supported-challenges STANDALONE_SUPPORTED_CHALLENGES
                        Supported challenges. Preferred in the order they are
                        listed. (default: tls-sni-01,http-01)

manual:
  Manually configure an HTTP server

  --manual-test-mode    Test mode. Executes the manual command in subprocess.
                        (default: False)
  --manual-public-ip-logging-ok
                        Automatically allows public IP logging. (default:
                        False)

nginx:
  Nginx Web Server - currently doesn't work

  --nginx-server-root NGINX_SERVER_ROOT
                        Nginx server root directory. (default: /etc/nginx)
  --nginx-ctl NGINX_CTL
                        Path to the 'nginx' binary, used for 'configtest' and
                        retrieving nginx version number. (default: nginx)

webroot:
  Place files in webroot directory

  --webroot-path WEBROOT_PATH, -w WEBROOT_PATH
                        public_html / webroot path. This can be specified
                        multiple times to handle different domains; each
                        domain will have the webroot path that preceded it.
                        For instance: `-w /var/www/example -d example.com -d
                        www.example.com -w /var/www/thing -d thing.net -d
                        m.thing.net` (default: [])
  --webroot-map WEBROOT_MAP
                        JSON dictionary mapping domains to webroot paths; this
                        implies -d for each entry. You may need to escape this
                        from your shell. E.g.: --webroot-map
                        '{"eg1.is,m.eg1.is":"/www/eg1/", "eg2.is":"/www/eg2"}'
                        This option is merged with, but takes precedence over,
                        -w / -d entries. At present, if you put webroot-map in
                        a config file, it needs to be on a single line, like:
                        webroot-map = {"example.com":"/var/www"}. (default:
                        {})

apache:
  Apache Web Server - Alpha

  --apache-enmod APACHE_ENMOD
                        Path to the Apache 'a2enmod' binary. (default:
                        a2enmod)
  --apache-dismod APACHE_DISMOD
                        Path to the Apache 'a2dismod' binary. (default:
                        a2dismod)
  --apache-le-vhost-ext APACHE_LE_VHOST_EXT
                        SSL vhost configuration extension. (default: -le-
                        ssl.conf)
  --apache-server-root APACHE_SERVER_ROOT
                        Apache server root directory. (default: /etc/apache2)
  --apache-vhost-root APACHE_VHOST_ROOT
                        Apache server VirtualHost configuration root (default:
                        /etc/apache2/sites-available)
  --apache-challenge-location APACHE_CHALLENGE_LOCATION
                        Directory path for challenge configuration. (default:
                        /etc/apache2)
  --apache-handle-modules APACHE_HANDLE_MODULES
                        Let installer handle enabling required modules for
                        you.(Only Ubuntu/Debian currently) (default: True)
  --apache-handle-sites APACHE_HANDLE_SITES
                        Let installer handle enabling sites for you.(Only
                        Ubuntu/Debian currently) (default: True)

null:
  Null Installer
